[Music] [Applause] Well, hello. Uh, my name
is David. I'm a member of technical staff at
Anthropic and one of the co-creators of uh, MCP.
And today I'm going to tell you a little bit more
about the protocol and the things you can do
um just to give you an understanding of um what
there's more to the protocol than what most people
use it for at the moment which would be tools. So
really the goal today is to showcase you what
the protocol is capable of and how you can use
it in ways to build richer interactions with MCP
clients. um that goes beyond the tool call tool
calling that most people are used to. And I will
first go through all the different like what we
call primitives like ways for the servers to
expose information to a client before we go
into some of the bit more lesser known aspects of
the protocol and then I want to talk a little bit
about like how to build a really rich interaction
before we take a little stab of what's coming next
for MCP and how we bring MCP to the web. But to
just get you started, I want to talk about one of
the MCP primitives um that servers can expose to
MCP clients that very few people know. And those
are called prompts. And what a prompts are really
are predefined templates for AI interactions.
And that's to say it's a way for an MCP server
to expose a set of text, you know, like a prompt
in a way um that allows um users to directly um
add this to the context window and see how they
would use for example the MCP uh server uh you're
building. And there are really the two main use
cases here is for you as an MCP server author to
provide an example for um that you can showcase
to the user so that they know how to use the MCP
server in the best way because realistically you
are the one who has built it. You are the one
who knows how to use it in the best possible
way and probably at the time you would release
it are the one who has used it the most time.
But since MCP uh prompts are also dynamic in
a way, they're just code under the hood that
are executed in MCP server, they allow you to do
even richer things than that. What you can do and
I want to showcase this in this scenario is an MCP
prompt that a user invokes um in this uh Z editor
here that will fetch directly GitHub comments
that um into my context window. And so what you
see me here doing is just basically um put into
the context window um the comments from my pull
request that is that you know I've written so that
I can go and interact with it and have then the
model go and help me you know apply the changes
that has been requested to me or whatever I want
to do. And so this is really a way for exposing
things that the user should directly interact
and the user should directly wants to put into the
context window before it interacts with the yellow
lamb. So it's different from that from tools where
the model decides when to do it. This is what that
the user decides um I want to add this um to
the context window. And if you look carefully,
there's one additional thing that very very few
people know um that you can do and that is prompt
completion. So if you have looked carefully, there
was a way where it showcased quickly a popup of me
selecting the poll requests that are available
to myself. And that is a way that you can that
is a thing that you can provide as an MCP server
author to build richer parameterized templates
for example. And this is exceptionally easy to
do in the code. Like if you're in Typescript,
building a prompt that provides users with um
like such a template and have parameters for it
and like autocomp completion is nothing more than
a few lines of code that cloud code together with
cloud 4 can most of the time write basically
for you. And it's just that simple. It's a
function for the completion. It's a function for
generating the prompt. And so this is already like
one of these primitives you can use to build
an interaction for users with an MCP server,
but it's just a little bit more richer than a tool
call. And a second one of these is something that
we call resources. It's another primitive than
an MCP server can expose to an MCP client. And
while prompts are really focused on text snippets
that a user can add uh into the context window,
resources are about exposing raw data or content
from a server. And why would you want to do this?
There are two ways why you want to do this. So
one thing is most of the clients today would
allow you to add this raw content directly to the
context window. So in that way they're not that
different from context uh from prompts but it also
allows application to do additional things to that
raw data and that could be for example building
embeddings around this data the server exposes and
then do retrieval augmented uh generation um by
adding to the context window the most appropriate
things. And so this is an area that at the moment
I feel is a bit underexplored. And I just want
to quickly showcase you uh how resources work.
In this case, this is again uh one of these um
uh ways where an MCP client exposes a resource um
as a file like object. And in this scenario here,
we are exposing the database schema for apostra
database um as resources and then you can add them
in cloud desktop just like files and that way
you can tell claude this is the tables I care
about and now please go ahead and visualize them.
And so in this scenario, what you're going to see
is Claude is going to go uh and write a beautiful
diagram that visualizes the database schema for
me. And I've exposed the schema via resources.
There's a lot of unexport space still here. Again,
if you go beyond just like adding it file and
think about like retrieval augmentation or any
other thing the application might want to do. And
so those are two primitives. one is prompts again
the things that the user interacts with there's
the second one is resources that the application
interact with then of course there should be a
third one that you all are very familiar with
um that I don't want to get into too much depth
because if you have built an MCP server you
probably have built it for exposing a tool and
so tools are really these actions of course that
can be invoked that's like one of the I think
most magical moment I feel when you build an
MCP server is when the model for the first
time invokes something that you care about
that you have built for and has this little
impact on you know it might be like quing a
database for you or whatever it might be. Um but
this is again the thing that the model decides
when to call to an action. And so these are three
very basic primitives that the protocol exposes.
And if you think carefully about these three
primitives that I just showcased you to to you,
there's a little bit of overlap about like
how do you use like they could like when do
you use what really and so there's something
that very that we don't talk enough about and
it's somewhere buried in the specification
language of the model context protocol is
what I call the interaction model and I think
showcasing it hopefully makes clear when you use
What? Because the interaction model is built in
such a way that you can expose the same data in
three different ways depending on when you
want to have it show up. And prompts again
are these userdriven things. It's the thing
the user invokes adds to the context window.
And the most common scenario where how you see
these pop up is a slash command, an add command,
something like that. Resources on the other hand
are all applicationdriven. The application that
uses the LLM be it cloud desktop be it VS code
something like that fully is decides what it
wants to do with that. And then lastly tools
are driven by the model. in between, you know,
an AI application using a model and a user, we
have all three parts that we eventually cover
using these three basic primitives. And that
allows you already to go to a little bit of a
richer application and experience than what most
people can currently do with tools because you
just have a way to interact with the user a bit
more nuanced um than if you just wait for this
model to call the tool. But we can even go beyond
that because while these basic primitives get us
a little bit further than what we see most MCP
servers do at the moment, there are even richer
interactions that we want to enable. And to make
this a bit more understandable, here's a really
an example I want to give you um that showcases
this problem. So how can you build an MCP server
for example that summarizes a discussion from an
issue tracker? So on one hand side I can build
an MCP server that exposes this kind of data very
simple and that's quite clear but how do I do the
summarization step because for the summarization
step I obviously need a model and so there in one
way to go and build this is you can build an
MCP server that is this issue tracker server
and you have a choice here you can bring your own
SDK and call the model have the model summarizes
But then there's a little problem to that and the
problem is that the client has a model selected
be it like clawed or whatever else but the server
the MCP server that you've built doesn't know what
model the client has configured and so you bring
your own SDK like of of a model provider and be
it the anthropic SDK you still need then like
a API key that this user needs to provide and
gets very quickly very awkward and so MCP has
a little hidden feature or a little primitive
called sampling that allows a server to request
a completion from the client. What does this
mean? It means that the server can use a model
independently from like don't having to provide an
SDK itself but in but asks the client which model
you have configured and the client is the one
providing the completion to the server. And what
does this do? It does two things. First of all,
it allows the client to get full control over
the security, privacy and the cost. So instead of
having to provide an additional API key, you might
tap into the subscription that your client might
already have. But it allows also um a second part
which is that if you take multiple um if you chain
MCP servers in an interesting way, it makes this
whole pattern very recursive. And what do I mean
by that? It's a bit abstract. You can take an MCP
server that exposes a tool, but during the tool
execution, you might want to use more MCP servers
downstream. And somewhere downstream in this like
system, there might be then your Asia Tracker
server that wants to go and have a completion.
But using sampling you can bubble up the requests
such that the client always stays in full control
over the cost of the subscription whatever
you want to use. It stays in full control of
the privacy over the cost of this interaction and
basically manages every interaction um that an MCP
server wants to do with a model. And that allows
for very powerful chaining and it allows for like
more complex patterns that go already into like
ways of how you can build little MCP agents.
But that's sampling. Sampling at the moment is
sadly I think one of the more exciting features
but also one of the features that's the least
supported in clients. for our first party projects
uh products. We will bring um sampling somewhere
this year. Um and so then you can hopefully start
building more exciting MCP servers. And then
there's the last primitive that I want to touch
on that's also a bit more interesting and it's
one of these things that in retrospective as one
of the person who has built the protocol um I've
probably named terribly to be fair I'm not a very
not not very good at naming and you will see this
throughout the talk probably but there's a thing
called roots and roots is also an interesting
aspect because let's imagine I want to build today
an MCP server that deals with my git commands I
don't want to deal with git. I don't want to do
source control commands. I don't remember any of
that. I want to have MCP deal like an MCP server
deal with this. So now I'm going to hook up an
MCP server into my favorite IDE. But how does the
IDE know how does the MC sorry, how does the MCP
server know what are the open projects in the IDE?
Because obviously I want to run the git commands
in the workspaces I have open, right? And so roots
is a way for the server to inquire from the client
such as VS code for example what are the projects
you have open so that I can operate within only
those directories that the server has opened and I
know where I want to execute my git commands and
this again is a feature that's not that widely
used but for example VS code currently does
support this and so these These are, you know,
just all the big primitives that MCP offers. So,
we have five primitives, three on the server side,
two on the client side. But how you put it all
together to actually build a rich interaction
because that's what we want. We want to build
something for users that's a bit richer than
just tool calling. And so, let's take a look at
how you will build a hypothetical MCP server that
interacts with your favorite chat application, be
that Discord, be it Slack. You could use prompts
to give examples to users such as like summarize
this discussion and you can use completions with
recent threads, users or whatever you want them
to expose. You can have additional prompts like
what's new, what happened since yesterday. And so
that's one way the user can just kickstart right
away into using the server you have provided and
get the ideas. um that you how you intended it to
be used and then you can use resources to directly
list the channels to expose recent threats that
happened in the in the you know chat application
such that the MCP client can index it deal with
it in ways um that it that it wants. And then
of course last but not least we still have our
tools. We have search, we have read channels, we
have reading a threads and we would use sampling
to summarize a thread for example and really
expose this. And that's a way to really build a
much much much richer experience with MCP to use
the full power that the protocol has to offer.
But this is just the the beginning because most
of these experiences if we build MCP servers so
far have been experiences that stayed local. Out
of the 10,000 MCP servers the community has built
over the last six to seven months. The vast
majority are local experiences. But I think we
can take the next step and I think this is MCP's
really big next thing is bringing MCP servers away
from the local experience to the web. And so what
does this mean? It means that instead of having
an MCP server that is, you know, a Docker
container or some form of local executable,
it is nothing else but a website that your client
can connect to and exposes MCP and you talk to.
But for that we need two critical components.
We need authorization and we need scaling.
And in the most recent specification of
MCP, we made a ton of changes towards
this from the lessons we've learned and
the feedback we honestly got from the
community as well as like key partners.
And we work closely for example with like
people in the industry that worked on
and other aspects to get this right.
And so with authorization in MCP, what you can do
is you can basically provide the private context
of a user that might be behind an online
account or something directly to the LLM
application. And it really enables MCP authors to
bind the capability of the MCP servers to a user,
an online account, something like that. And in
order to do that, the way this currently has to
work in MCP is that you do this by providing
OOTH as the authorization layer. And the MCP
specification basically says you need to do O 2.1.
And that's a bit daunting because very few people
know what OOTH 2.1 is. But OA 2.1 is usually
just O 2.0 with all the basic things you would
do anyway. all these security considerations that
people that have done a wall telling you anyway to
do. So it's just OS 2.0 zero a little bit cleaned
up and you're probably already doing it if you're
doing a wall and if you do implement this wall
flow you get two interesting patterns out of that
and the first one is the scenario of an MCP
server in the web and a good example of this
is if you for example a payment provider and you
have you know website payment.com and I as a user
have an online account there now I as the payment
provider can expose mcp.payment.com that the user
can put into an MCP client and the MCP client will
do the or flow. I log in as my account and I know
this is payment.com. I know this is the the person
that is my online account with the provider that I
trust. I don't trust some random Docker container
running locally built by a third party developer
anymore. I trust the person I already trust with
the data anyway and their developers. And on the
their development side, they can just ex like
ex like update this server as they want and they
don't have to wait for me to download a new like
docker image. And so this is I think will be a
really really big step for enabling MCP servers to
be exposed on the web and MCP clients to interact
basically with all the online interactions
that you already have. And here's just a small
little example of this. In this scenario, we use
Cloud AAI integrations which we launched earlier
um this month to connect to a remote server and
use this oath flow to log in our user to then have
tools available that are aware of my data that I
care about it are for it is for me. But it enables
another aspect. It enables enterprises to smoothly
integrate MCP into their ecosystem how they
usually build applications. And what does this
mean? It means that internally they can deploy an
MCP server to their internet or whatever like they
use and use an identity provider like Azure ID or
Octar or whatever that central identity provider
that you usually use for single sign on and you
can have that still exist and it will be the one
that um gives you the tokens that you require to
interact with the MCP server. And that has a lot
to say that what it ends up with is a very smooth
integration. You as a development team internally,
you're going to build an MCP server that you
control that you could control the deployment and
the user just logs in in the morning with their
normal SSO like you always would do and anytime
they use an MCP server from them on on out,
they will just be logged in and have access to the
data that you know the that is their data that the
company has for them. And so this I think enables
a new way that I've already seen some of the big
enterprises do to build really vast systems of
MCP servers that allow um part of the company
to build a server um while the other part deals
about the integrations really nicely separates
uh integration builder and platform builders. And
then the second part that we require is scaling.
And we just added a new thing called streamable
HTTP which is just to say it's a lot of lot of
words to say basically we want MCP servers
to scale similar to normal APIs. And it's as
simple as that. you have as a server author you
can choose to either return results directly as
you would be in in a REST API except that it's not
quite just REST or if you need to you can open a
stream and get richer interactions. So in the most
simple way, you just want to provide a tool call
result. You get a request, you return application
JSON and off you go. End of the story. You close
the connection and the next connection come in
and uh you know get served by yet another Lambda
function. But if you need richer interactions
such as notification or features we talked
about like sampling, a request comes in, you
start a stream, the client accepts the stream,
and now you're being able to send additional
things to the client before you're returning
finally the result. And those authorization
and scaling together is really the foundation
to make MCP go from this local experience now to
be truly a standard for how LLM applications will
interact with the web. And just to finish it all
up, I just want to show you quickly about like
what's coming for MCP in the next few months
of some of the the most important highlights.
And the most important part is that um we are
starting to think more and more about agents and
there's a lot to do there. There are a synchronous
task that you of course want to run things that
are longer running that are not just like a minute
long but maybe a few few like hours long task that
an agent takes and that eventually I want to
have a result for. So we think a lot about
that and we're going to work to build primitives
for that into MCP in the near future. The second
part of that is elicitation. So really MCP server
authors being able to ask for input from the user
and that is something that's going to land just
about today or on Monday in the in the protocol.
And then we're doing two additional things. We
first and foremost going to build an official
registry to make sure there's a central place
where you can find and publish to MCP servers.
um so that we can really have one common place
where we're going to look for these servers but
also allow agents to dynamically download servers
and install them and use them and then of course
we're thinking more about multimodality and
that can be for example streaming of results
but that can have other aspects that I just don't
want to go into details yet and that's just the
specification part on the e on the ecosystem part
we going and having a more things to go that we're
doing at the moment. We're adding a Ruby SDK that
is uh donated by Shopify uh in the next few weeks
and the Google uh folks, the Google Go team is
currently building an official Go SDK for MCP. And
so I just hope that I was able to give you a bit
of a more in-depth view of what you could do with
MCP if you use the full power of the protocol.
And with that, I think I'm bit low on time,
so I can't ask question. We can't ask questions.
We can't do Q&A, but just grab me afterwards
and I can happy to answer on the hallway any
questions you might have. So, thank you so much.
[Music]